docs/12.EXT-REFERENCE-MODULE.md, before:

#  Module API

This is a JerryScript extension that provides a means of loading modules. Fundamentally, a module is a name (stored as
a string) that resolves to a `jerry_value_t`. This extension provides the function `jerryx_module_resolve()` which
accepts the name of the module being requested as well as an array of so-called "resolvers" - structures containing two
function pointers: one for a function which computes a canonical name for the requested module or returns a reference
to the requested name, and one that converts a canonical name to a `jerry_value_t`, thus "resolving" or "loading" the
requested module.

The resolvers are first called in sequence to each compute the canonical name of the requested module. This is
accomplished by calling the `get_canonical_name` function pointer they provide. If the function pointer is `NULL`, the
requested module name is assumed to be what the resolver considers to be its canonical name. `jerryx_module_resolve`
searches its cache of loaded modules for each canonical name as returned by a `get_canonical_name` function pointer. If
one of the loaded modules in the cache corresponds to a canonical name, it is returned.

If no cached module is found, `jerryx_module_resolve` calls each resolver's `resolve` function pointer, passing it its
previously computed interpretation of the requested module's canonical name. If the resolver successfully creates the
`jerry_value_t` that represents the loaded module, it returns `true` and the `jerry_value_t` in its out parameter.

When `jerryx_module_resolve` receives a value of `true` from a resolver, it stops iterating over the remaining
resolvers in the sequence and, if the `jerry_value_t` returned from the resolver's `resolve` does not have the error
flag set, it will add the `jerry_value_t` to its cache under the module's canonical name and return it. Thus, on
subsequent calls to `jerryx_module_resolve` with a module name whose canonical name is associated with the
`jerry_value_t`, no `resolve` callback need be called again.

The purpose of having resolvers is to be able to account for the fact that different types of modules may be structured
differently and thus, for each type of module a module resolver must be supplied at the point where an instance of that
type of module is requested.

Individual modules may be removed from the cache by calling `jerryx_module_clear_cache`. This function behaves
identically to `jerryx_module_resolve` in that it first checks the cache for the requested module, except that it
removes the module if found. Additionally, it clears the entire cache of all modules if called using a JavaScript value
of `undefined` as its first parameter.

Additionally, this extension provides a means of easily defining so-called "native" JerryScript modules which can be
resolved using the native JerryScript module resolver `jerryx_module_native_resolver`, which can be passed to
`jerryx_module_resolve()`. Native modules are registered during application startup and by calling `dlopen()` by means
of library constructors, support for which can be turned on using the `FEATURE_INIT_FINI` build flag. In the absence of
such a flag, the module registration and unregistration functions are exposed as global symbols which can be called
explicitly. Note: `FEATURE_INIT_FINI` build flag isn't supported on Windows, because Microsoft Visual C/C++ Compiler
doesn't support library constructors and destructors.

## jerryx_module_resolve

**Summary**

Load a copy of a module into the current context or return one that was already loaded if it is found.

For each resolver passed in via `resolvers_p`, its `get_canonical_name` function pointer gets called in order to
establish the resolver's interpretation of what the canonical name for the module should be. If `get_canonical_name` is
`NULL`, it is assumed that the requested module's name as passed in is its canonical name.

Then, for each resolver passed in via `resolvers_p`, its `resolve` function pointer gets called with its interpretation
of what the module's canonical name should be, as computed in the previous step.

If the resolver's `resolve` function pointer returns `true`, the `jerry_value_t` returned in its out-parameter will be
returned by `jerryx_module_resolve` as the result of the request. If no error flag is set on the `jerry_value_t` it
will be cached under its canonical name so as to avoid loading the same module twice in the event of a subsequent call
to `jerryx_module_resolve` with a module name whose canonical name matches an already loaded module.

**Prototype**

```c
jerry_value_t
jerryx_module_resolve (const jerry_value_t name,
                       const jerryx_module_resolver_t *resolvers_p,
                       size_t resolver_count);
```

- `name` - the name of the module to load
- `resolvers_p` - the list of resolvers to call in sequence
- `resolver_count` - the number of resolvers in `resolvers_p`
- return value - `jerry_value_t` representing the module that was loaded, or the error that occurred in the process.


## jerryx_module_clear_cache

**Summary**

Remove a module from the current context's cache, or clear the cache entirely.

**Prototype**

```c
void
jerryx_module_clear_cache (const jerry_value_t name,
                           const jerryx_module_resolver_t *resolvers_p,
                           size_t resolver_count);
```

- `name` - the name of the module to remove from cache or a JavaScript `undefined` to clear the entire cache
- `resolvers_p` - the list of resolvers to call in sequence
- `resolver_count` - the number of resolvers in `resolvers_p`


## jerryx_module_native_resolver

**Summary**

The resolver for native JerryScript modules. A pointer to this structure can be passed in the second parameter to
`jerryx_module_resolve` to search for the module among the native JerryScript modules built into the binary. This
function is available only if the preprocessor directive `JERRYX_NATIVE_MODULES_SUPPORTED` is defined.

**Prototype**

```c
extern jerry_module_resolver_t jerryx_native_module_resolver;
```

# Module data types

## jerryx_module_get_canonical_name_t

**Summary**

The function pointer type for converting a module's requested name to its canonical name.

**Prototype**

```c
typedef jerry_value_t (*jerryx_module_get_canonical_name_t) (const jerry_value_t name);
```

## jerryx_module_resolve_t

**Summary**

Function pointer type for module resolution.

**Prototype**

```c
typedef bool (*jerryx_module_resolve_t) (const jerry_value_t canonical_name,
                                        jerry_value_t *result);
```

## jerryx_module_resolver_t

**Summary**

Structure defining a module resolver.

**Prototype**

```c
typedef struct
{
  jerryx_module_get_canonical_name_t get_canonical_name_p;
  jerryx_module_resolve_t resolve_p;
} jerryx_module_resolver_t;
```

- `get_canonical_name_p` - function pointer to be called when the canonical name corresponding to the requested name
of a module must be established.
- `resolve_p` - function pointer to be called when a module with the given canonical name needs to be converted to the
`jerry_value_t` that will become the loaded module.

**Example**
```c
static bool
load_and_evaluate_js_file (const jerry_value_t name, jerry_value_t *result)
{
  bool return_value = false;
  char *js_file_contents = NULL;
  int file_size = 0;

  jerry_size_t name_size = jerry_get_utf8_string_size (name);
  jerry_char_t name_string[name_size + 1];
  jerry_string_to_utf8_char_buffer (name, name_string, name_size);
  name_string[name_size] = 0;

  FILE *js_file = fopen (name_string, "r");

  if (js_file)
  {
    /* We have successfully opened the file. Now, we establish its size. */
    file_size = fseek (js_file, 0, SEEK_END);
    fseek (js_file, 0, SEEK_SET);

    /* We allocate enough memory to store the contents of the file. */
    js_file_contents = malloc (file_size);
    if (js_file_contents)
    {
      /* We read the file into memory and call jerry_eval (), assigning the result to the out-parameter. */
      fread (js_file_contents, file_size, 1, js_file);
      (*result) = jerry_eval (js_file_contents, file_size, JERRY_PARSE_NO_OPTS);

      /* We release the memory holding the contents of the file. */
      free (js_file_contents);
      return_value = true;
    }

    /* We close the file. */
    fclose (js_file);
  }

  return return_value;
}

static jerry_value_t
canonicalize_file_path (const jerry_value_t name)
{
  jerry_value_t absolute_path;

  /**
   * Since a file on the file system can be referred to by multiple relative paths, but only by one absolute path, the
   * absolute path becomes the canonical name for the module. Thus, to establish this canonical name, we must search
   * name for "./" and "../", follow symlinks, etc., then create absolute_path via jerry_create_string () and return
   * it, because it is the canonical name for this module. Thus, we avoid loading the same JavaScript file twice.
   */

  return absolute_path;
}

static jerryx_module_resolver_t js_file_loader
{
  canonicalize_file_path,
  load_and_evaluate_js_file
};
```

We can now load JavaScript files:
```c
static const jerryx_module_resolver_t *resolvers[] =
{
  /*
   * Consult the resolver for native JerryScript modules first, in case the requested module is a native JerryScript
   * module.
   */
  &jerryx_module_native_resolver,

  /*
   * If the requested module is not a native JerryScript module, assume it is a JavaScript file on disk and use the
   * above-defined JavaScript file loader to load it.
   */
  &js_file_loader
};
jerry_value_t js_module = jerryx_module_resolve (requested_module, resolvers, 2);
```

# Module helper macros

## JERRYX_NATIVE_MODULE

**Summary**

Helper macro to define a native JerryScript module. Currently declares a global static structure of type
`jerryx_native_module_t` and a constructor/destructor pair that calls `jerryx_native_module_register()` resp.
`jerryx_native_module_unregister()`. If the extension is built without the FEATURE_INIT_FINI flag, indicating that
support for library constructors and destructors is absent, the constructor and destructor are declared as global
symbols so that they may be called explicitly from within the application.

**Note**: The helper macro must appear at the bottom of a source file, and no semicolon must follow it.

**Prototype**
```c
#define JERRYX_NATIVE_MODULE(module_name, on_resolve_cb)
```

- `module_name` - the name of the module without quotes. This value is used as the prefix for the registration and unregistration funtions. For example, when `module_name` is `example_module`, this results in the declaration of two functions `example_module_register()` and `example_module_unregister()`. These functions are declared global if support for library constructors/destructors is absent, allowing you to call them from other parts of the code by
first forward-declaring them.
- `on_resolve_cb` - the function of type `jerryx_native_module_on_resolve_t` that will be called when the module needs to be
loaded.

**Example**

```c
#include "jerryscript.h"
#include "jerryscript-ext/module.h"

static jerry_value_t
my_module_on_resolve (void)
{
  return jerry_create_external_function (very_useful_function);
} /* my_module_on_resolve */

/* Note that there is no semicolon at the end of the next line. This is how it must be. */
JERRYX_NATIVE_MODULE (my_module, my_module_on_resolve)
```

**Example Usage When Library Constructors Are Unavailable**

```c
#include "jerryscript.h"
#include "jerryscript-ext/module.h"

/**
 * Forward-declare the module registration and unregistration function.
 */
extern void my_module_register (void);
extern void my_module_unregister (void);
int
main (int argc, char **argv)
{
  jerryx_module_resolver_t resolvers[] =
  {
    jerryx_native_module_resolver
  };

  /* This plays the role of the library constructor. */
  my_module_register ();

  jerry_init (JERRY_INIT_EMPTY);
  ...
  jerry_value_t my_module = jerryx_module_resolve ("my_module", resolvers, 1);
  ...
  jerry_cleanup ();

  /* This plays the role of the library destructor */
  my_module_unregister();

  return 0;
}
```

Commit message:

Add FEATURE_INIT_FINI support on Windows.
JerryScript-DCO-1.0-Signed-off-by: Yonggang Luo luoyonggang@gmail.com

docs/12.EXT-REFERENCE-MODULE.md, after:

#  Module API

This is a JerryScript extension that provides a means of loading modules. Fundamentally, a module is a name (stored as
a string) that resolves to a `jerry_value_t`. This extension provides the function `jerryx_module_resolve()` which
accepts the name of the module being requested as well as an array of so-called "resolvers" - structures containing two
function pointers: one for a function which computes a canonical name for the requested module or returns a reference
to the requested name, and one that converts a canonical name to a `jerry_value_t`, thus "resolving" or "loading" the
requested module.

The resolvers are first called in sequence to each compute the canonical name of the requested module. This is
accomplished by calling the `get_canonical_name` function pointer they provide. If the function pointer is `NULL`, the
requested module name is assumed to be what the resolver considers to be its canonical name. `jerryx_module_resolve`
searches its cache of loaded modules for each canonical name as returned by a `get_canonical_name` function pointer. If
one of the loaded modules in the cache corresponds to a canonical name, it is returned.

If no cached module is found, `jerryx_module_resolve` calls each resolver's `resolve` function pointer, passing it its
previously computed interpretation of the requested module's canonical name. If the resolver successfully creates the
`jerry_value_t` that represents the loaded module, it returns `true` and the `jerry_value_t` in its out parameter.

When `jerryx_module_resolve` receives a value of `true` from a resolver, it stops iterating over the remaining
resolvers in the sequence and, if the `jerry_value_t` returned from the resolver's `resolve` does not have the error
flag set, it will add the `jerry_value_t` to its cache under the module's canonical name and return it. Thus, on
subsequent calls to `jerryx_module_resolve` with a module name whose canonical name is associated with the
`jerry_value_t`, no `resolve` callback need be called again.

The purpose of having resolvers is to be able to account for the fact that different types of modules may be structured
differently and thus, for each type of module a module resolver must be supplied at the point where an instance of that
type of module is requested.

Individual modules may be removed from the cache by calling `jerryx_module_clear_cache`. This function behaves
identically to `jerryx_module_resolve` in that it first checks the cache for the requested module, except that it
removes the module if found. Additionally, it clears the entire cache of all modules if called using a JavaScript value
of `undefined` as its first parameter.

Additionally, this extension provides a means of easily defining so-called "native" JerryScript modules which can be
resolved using the native JerryScript module resolver `jerryx_module_native_resolver`, which can be passed to
`jerryx_module_resolve()`. Native modules are registered during application startup and by calling `dlopen()` by means
of library constructors, support for which can be turned on using the `FEATURE_INIT_FINI` build flag. In the absence of
such a flag, the module registration and unregistration functions are exposed as global symbols which can be called
explicitly. Note: On windows, `FEATURE_INIT_FINI` build flag only supported with GNU toolchain or Microsoft Visual C/C++ Compiler
2008 and upper.

## jerryx_module_resolve

**Summary**

Load a copy of a module into the current context or return one that was already loaded if it is found.

For each resolver passed in via `resolvers_p`, its `get_canonical_name` function pointer gets called in order to
establish the resolver's interpretation of what the canonical name for the module should be. If `get_canonical_name` is
`NULL`, it is assumed that the requested module's name as passed in is its canonical name.

Then, for each resolver passed in via `resolvers_p`, its `resolve` function pointer gets called with its interpretation
of what the module's canonical name should be, as computed in the previous step.

If the resolver's `resolve` function pointer returns `true`, the `jerry_value_t` returned in its out-parameter will be
returned by `jerryx_module_resolve` as the result of the request. If no error flag is set on the `jerry_value_t` it
will be cached under its canonical name so as to avoid loading the same module twice in the event of a subsequent call
to `jerryx_module_resolve` with a module name whose canonical name matches an already loaded module.

**Prototype**

```c
jerry_value_t
jerryx_module_resolve (const jerry_value_t name,
                       const jerryx_module_resolver_t *resolvers_p,
                       size_t resolver_count);
```

- `name` - the name of the module to load
- `resolvers_p` - the list of resolvers to call in sequence
- `resolver_count` - the number of resolvers in `resolvers_p`
- return value - `jerry_value_t` representing the module that was loaded, or the error that occurred in the process.


## jerryx_module_clear_cache

**Summary**

Remove a module from the current context's cache, or clear the cache entirely.

**Prototype**

```c
void
jerryx_module_clear_cache (const jerry_value_t name,
                           const jerryx_module_resolver_t *resolvers_p,
                           size_t resolver_count);
```

- `name` - the name of the module to remove from cache or a JavaScript `undefined` to clear the entire cache
- `resolvers_p` - the list of resolvers to call in sequence
- `resolver_count` - the number of resolvers in `resolvers_p`


## jerryx_module_native_resolver

**Summary**

The resolver for native JerryScript modules. A pointer to this structure can be passed in the second parameter to
`jerryx_module_resolve` to search for the module among the native JerryScript modules built into the binary. This
function is available only if the preprocessor directive `JERRYX_NATIVE_MODULES_SUPPORTED` is defined.

**Prototype**

```c
extern jerry_module_resolver_t jerryx_native_module_resolver;
```

# Module data types

## jerryx_module_get_canonical_name_t

**Summary**

The function pointer type for converting a module's requested name to its canonical name.

**Prototype**

```c
typedef jerry_value_t (*jerryx_module_get_canonical_name_t) (const jerry_value_t name);
```

## jerryx_module_resolve_t

**Summary**

Function pointer type for module resolution.

**Prototype**

```c
typedef bool (*jerryx_module_resolve_t) (const jerry_value_t canonical_name,
                                        jerry_value_t *result);
```

## jerryx_module_resolver_t

**Summary**

Structure defining a module resolver.

**Prototype**

```c
typedef struct
{
  jerryx_module_get_canonical_name_t get_canonical_name_p;
  jerryx_module_resolve_t resolve_p;
} jerryx_module_resolver_t;
```

- `get_canonical_name_p` - function pointer to be called when the canonical name corresponding to the requested name
of a module must be established.
- `resolve_p` - function pointer to be called when a module with the given canonical name needs to be converted to the
`jerry_value_t` that will become the loaded module.

**Example**
```c
static bool
load_and_evaluate_js_file (const jerry_value_t name, jerry_value_t *result)
{
  bool return_value = false;
  char *js_file_contents = NULL;
  int file_size = 0;

  jerry_size_t name_size = jerry_get_utf8_string_size (name);
  jerry_char_t name_string[name_size + 1];
  jerry_string_to_utf8_char_buffer (name, name_string, name_size);
  name_string[name_size] = 0;

  FILE *js_file = fopen (name_string, "r");

  if (js_file)
  {
    /* We have successfully opened the file. Now, we establish its size. */
    file_size = fseek (js_file, 0, SEEK_END);
    fseek (js_file, 0, SEEK_SET);

    /* We allocate enough memory to store the contents of the file. */
    js_file_contents = malloc (file_size);
    if (js_file_contents)
    {
      /* We read the file into memory and call jerry_eval (), assigning the result to the out-parameter. */
      fread (js_file_contents, file_size, 1, js_file);
      (*result) = jerry_eval (js_file_contents, file_size, JERRY_PARSE_NO_OPTS);

      /* We release the memory holding the contents of the file. */
      free (js_file_contents);
      return_value = true;
    }

    /* We close the file. */
    fclose (js_file);
  }

  return return_value;
}

static jerry_value_t
canonicalize_file_path (const jerry_value_t name)
{
  jerry_value_t absolute_path;

  /**
   * Since a file on the file system can be referred to by multiple relative paths, but only by one absolute path, the
   * absolute path becomes the canonical name for the module. Thus, to establish this canonical name, we must search
   * name for "./" and "../", follow symlinks, etc., then create absolute_path via jerry_create_string () and return
   * it, because it is the canonical name for this module. Thus, we avoid loading the same JavaScript file twice.
   */

  return absolute_path;
}

static jerryx_module_resolver_t js_file_loader
{
  canonicalize_file_path,
  load_and_evaluate_js_file
};
```

We can now load JavaScript files:
```c
static const jerryx_module_resolver_t *resolvers[] =
{
  /*
   * Consult the resolver for native JerryScript modules first, in case the requested module is a native JerryScript
   * module.
   */
  &jerryx_module_native_resolver,

  /*
   * If the requested module is not a native JerryScript module, assume it is a JavaScript file on disk and use the
   * above-defined JavaScript file loader to load it.
   */
  &js_file_loader
};
jerry_value_t js_module = jerryx_module_resolve (requested_module, resolvers, 2);
```

# Module helper macros

## JERRYX_NATIVE_MODULE

**Summary**

Helper macro to define a native JerryScript module. Currently declares a global static structure of type
`jerryx_native_module_t` and a constructor/destructor pair that calls `jerryx_native_module_register()` resp.
`jerryx_native_module_unregister()`. If the extension is built without the FEATURE_INIT_FINI flag, indicating that
support for library constructors and destructors is absent, the constructor and destructor are declared as global
symbols so that they may be called explicitly from within the application.

**Note**: The helper macro must appear at the bottom of a source file, and no semicolon must follow it.

**Prototype**
```c
#define JERRYX_NATIVE_MODULE(module_name, on_resolve_cb)
```

- `module_name` - the name of the module without quotes. This value is used as the prefix for the registration and unregistration funtions. For example, when `module_name` is `example_module`, this results in the declaration of two functions `example_module_register()` and `example_module_unregister()`. These functions are declared global if support for library constructors/destructors is absent, allowing you to call them from other parts of the code by
first forward-declaring them.
- `on_resolve_cb` - the function of type `jerryx_native_module_on_resolve_t` that will be called when the module needs to be
loaded.

**Example**

```c
#include "jerryscript.h"
#include "jerryscript-ext/module.h"

static jerry_value_t
my_module_on_resolve (void)
{
  return jerry_create_external_function (very_useful_function);
} /* my_module_on_resolve */

/* Note that there is no semicolon at the end of the next line. This is how it must be. */
JERRYX_NATIVE_MODULE (my_module, my_module_on_resolve)
```

**Example Usage When Library Constructors Are Unavailable**

```c
#include "jerryscript.h"
#include "jerryscript-ext/module.h"

/**
 * Forward-declare the module registration and unregistration function.
 */
extern void my_module_register (void);
extern void my_module_unregister (void);
int
main (int argc, char **argv)
{
  jerryx_module_resolver_t resolvers[] =
  {
    jerryx_native_module_resolver
  };

  /* This plays the role of the library constructor. */
  my_module_register ();

  jerry_init (JERRY_INIT_EMPTY);
  ...
  jerry_value_t my_module = jerryx_module_resolve ("my_module", resolvers, 1);
  ...
  jerry_cleanup ();

  /* This plays the role of the library destructor */
  my_module_unregister();

  return 0;
}
```
